I didn’t give any lecture to the girls.
I think it is more the responsibility of the men
to make their marriages successful.
Men have to understand
that marriage is a very important part of your life.
And your time and respect should be given for that.
The way you care for your wife
from the very beginning helps you a lot.
You try and understand
what she wants,
what are her demands -
anything,
try to see that
you show her your interest in her.
From the very first day, be careful
not to neglect her and to misunderstand her.
She comes from another country,
so she has her own upbringing,
her own ideas.
Try to understand and respect that.
Marriage is all joy,
but you must take it up very seriously.
It’s not just a joke.
Specially in Sahaja Yoga, one should understand
that marriage is a very important thing,
by which you have a couple which are sanctified.
And they carry the responsibility of
making the Sahaja Yoga very successful.
Sahaja Yoga is
a great thing, because it can transform the whole world into a very beautiful place.
And you are responsible for that.
As men, you should understand your responsibility as a
great person, who is the, sort of a head of the family.
I – yesterday I told you that I don’t believe in divorce,
but I expect you to be very good husbands,
who will give all love, all affection, all care to your wives.
In Sahaja Yoga,
men and women are absolutely equal.
They may not be similar, but they are absolutely equal.
And they are complementary to each other.
You should not think that your life is the most important one,
and that your wife is something negligible.
I have seen most of the marriages in Sahaja Yoga are successful,
and they have very nice children also.
Marriages only fail when there is the play of ego.
That is more with men than women -  normally.
And that can ruin the lives
of your wife and yourself, your children.
Women are sensible,
but they can tolerate up to a point.
So we should see how much wisdom you have,
to make a good
Sahaja Yoga is one big, global family.
So you have also your responsibility
to the whole organization of Sahaja Yoga.
She is coming from another
family, another country, another atmosphere,
so try to make her understand and adjust herself.
So don’t try to find faults with her,
but make her feel comfortable and happy,
then she can grow in Sahaja Yoga very well.
And your children must respect the mother -
absolutely.
As you respect Me,
your children should also respect their mother.
I am sure you are going to have a very nice time,
If you are sensible about your marriage.
There is no force in Sahaja Yoga.
You have decided to marry in Sahaja Yoga
and so the marriage has taken place.
I have not told anything to the ladies this time,
because they look so sensible, so anxious
and looking for the future.
I think always men should
try to understand the responsibility of a married life,
more than women.
Innately, the women know
and understand that it’s important
that their married life should be successful.
But I’ve found out sometimes the men take them for granted -
that should not be such.
For everything she does for you,
and with all love and affection, you must appreciate it.
You should appreciate her,
that’s the only way you can show your love to her.
You know, in Sahaja Yoga we don’t allow
men to go about with other women, or women going about with other men.
It’s not allowed at all - no way.
I think you are all sensible and you will understand your responsibility,
marrying a Sahaja Yogini –
you are not marrying an ordinary woman,
you are marrying a Sahaja Yogini and you pay all the due to her.
That’s how you will glorify Sahaja Yoga.
May God bless you all.
Shri Mataji: Not yet. Very good.
Congratulations to all of you.
It’s a very beautiful experience for me also,
to see you all are married so happily with each other,
and assuring Me that you’ll lead a very happy
and congenial married life.
I’m sure you can do it.
It’s not so difficult.
In Sahaja Yoga you know how to love and how to express love.
And these marriages are based on Divine love,
that’s even purer, much higher
and much more joy-giving.
So I bless you all
with My, all My heart,
that you all enjoy
your married life.
Enjoy is the point.
If you cannot enjoy your married life, it will be a misery.
So I want to tell you, whatever is there,
learn how to enjoy everything.
That’s the best way you can do it.
Just now, as you were telling about your names and describing,
I felt such a collective feeling within you
to understand each other, appreciate each other,
and to feel the joy together.
That’s something great that’s in Sahaja Yoga.
So may God bless you,
with all My heart I bless you.